fresh greens right for my garden welcome
to my backyard farm here in Brooklyn New
York my name is me hail um I you can
find out more information about me at
edible landscape or calm right now we're
going to take you through my garden show
you some nice planting arrangements that
I have so let's start with a bed that's
closer to the house this I call the
green
we have some collard greens right here
which we've already started so i'm
mostly harvested out I mean you got
sturgeons lettuce Swiss chard now the
big challenge with this bed is that I
planted these grains so densely that as
they're growing in there getting kind of
leggy and things need to make a gap and
get thinned out which is recommended
because when it comes to greens thinning
is actually a harvest as you can see I
can eat this and so not only am I giving
the plants more space between each other
for better air circulation and so they
could have more some of each plant more
sunlight space to grow I'm also
producing to myself
rather delicious
so I like to grow varieties that are
kind of things that you can't
necessarily find at a grocery store for
example this is like a blueblood tomato
which is a Bulgarian heirloom to be a
spawn trap it's actually not doesn't
seem like it's doing pretty well I have
a speculation that the soil here is to
nutritious for it and so I mean that's
why it's carnivore because it usually
refers so it's not so nutritious right
there because what I usually didn't
garden most of the best i transplanted
something and then i seated something
between so here are transplanted for
example peppers and i seeded onions in
between and distortion as well a little
bit and so their companion plants they
helped her out onions are very pungent
so they repel a lot of passes this is a
very smart companion planting to do
carrots and leeks and all obviously some
onions over there they confuse the leeks
confuse the carrot flies and you know
onions are just general general pest
repellent so and they have different
spatial and nutrient requirements so
they're planted well together as you can
see the carrots that are off on their
own and this is to stress how important
inning ends with the carrots that are
further away from other carrots are
generally bigger and so I know some
Gartner's when they start thinning they
feel like you know
these guys they're nice the beautiful
cuz they spiral shell but they they
liked a bunch and we also have okra
interspersed in this bed as well as some
rosemary and the okra wasn't doing
really well so what I did is I mashed up
some banana peels and I dug it up into
the soil around it and the potassium
really helped the okra deal with a lot
of the stress from the transplant and so
on so it's doing much better now oh look
at that beautiful zucchini flower it's
just a star that is beautiful that's
great I was kind of mad at this is a
teeny earlier but after seeing that is
our herb spiral the reason planting
herbs and the spiral is always a good
idea is because they have different
water and sunlight requirements and
you'll notice the spiral is a pattern
that occurs very often in nature for
example that snail shell that we
interacted with earlier while i was
building it this I looked under a lot of
rocks and saw millipedes and the spiral
I mean our galaxy is even in a spiral so
it makes a lot of sense to mimic that
pattern and use it to your benefit so
here we have the rosemary on top if
you're the prefers dry soil and then it
goes in a you know in the order what
prefers it dryer to wetter sage to
different pen sage oregano savory love
inch dill that's actually getting eaten
by grubs
tarragon thyme chives and then at the
bottom of the herbs spiral watercress
that can literally be grown in a pond so
it likes it really really really moist
now brussel sprouts are another thing
you that you want to establish a
presence in your garden just because
they they do take a while and they
become big plants but it's definitely
worth it this is going to be a late
summer crop Brussels sprouts however I
also recommend planting transplanting
the Brussels sprouts sometime around a
month from now July to offer you a nice
late fall crop because the good thing
about Brussels sprouts is that same look
similar with the artichoke is that once
frost comes it makes it a little sweeter
and so it's a very good post frost kind
of you know crop it you can still keep
harvesting so brussels and abdullah here
another is another really important
element of a garden which is a healthy
compost bin a compost is a way to kind
of close the loop in your garden many
garden scraps and food ways to put in
your compost and then a couple months
later you use it again as fertilizer for
your for your for your soil and this is
an example of really healthy compost you
want to let it get really hot and then
once it once it cooks a little you want
to turn it and let other parts of it
cook and really healthy compost should
actually smell like earth it shouldn't
be smelling like rotting I add food
waste and green waste so leafy things
grab an equal amount of wood chips and
which I put in here and I just layer it
on until it cooks a bit and that's when
I turn it and that usually produces very
very nutritious compost for me
and my plants so once again everything I
do is organic my soil as you take a look
at it is it's booming with life that's
got worms and bugs and all sorts of
things that are tilling the soil for us
and creating nutrients distributing the
nutrients around the garden as well and
so feel free to check out my website
edible landscape or calm there's plenty
of useful garden information and you'll
be seeing in these little videos
throughout the growing season doing
random garden task and so on so it'll be
a fun fun growing season in them i'm
looking forward to August when we're
going to have fruit falling off these
lines but I'm back here in our backyard
farm in Brooklyn so I mean he'll Costa
the edible landscaper don't forget to
check out edible landscaper calm